Gati V. Aher, Rosa I. Arriaga, and Adam Tauman Kalai. Using Large Language Models to Simulate Multiple
Humans and Replicate Human Subject Studies. InProceedings of the 40th International Conference on
Machine Learning, 2023.
Lisa P. Argyle, Ethan C. Busby, Nancy Fulda, Joshua R. Gubler, Christopher Rytting, and David Wingate.
OutofOne, Many: UsingLanguageModelstoSimulateHumanSamples.Political Analysis, 31(3):337–351,
2023.
Ariel Flint Ashery, Luca Maria Aiello, and Andrea Baronchelli. Emergent Social Conventions and Collective
Bias in LLM Populations.Science Advances, 11(20):eadu9368, 2025. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adu9368.
Albert-László Barabási and Réka Albert. Emergence of Scaling in Random Networks.Science, 286(5439):
509–512, 1999. doi: 10.1126/science.286.5439.509.
Ronald S Burt. The social structure of competition.Networks in the knowledge economy, 13(2):57–91, 2003.
Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chi-Min Chan, Heyang Yu, Yaxi Lu, Yi-
Hsin Hung, Chen Qian, et al. Agentverse: Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and exploring emergent
behaviors. InInternational Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2024, pp. 20094–20136, 2024.
David A. Cotter, Joan M. Hermsen, Seth Ovadia, and Reeve Vanneman. The Glass Ceiling Effect.Social
Forces, 80(2):655–681, 2001. doi: 10.1353/sof.2001.0091.
Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. Improving factuality and
reasoning in language models through multiagent debate. In Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Zico Kolter, Katherine
15
Heller, Adrian Weller, Nuria Oliver, Jonathan Scarlett, and Felix Berkenkamp (eds.),Proceedings of the
41st International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 235 ofProceedings of Machine Learning Re-
search, pp. 11733–11763. PMLR, 21–27 Jul 2024. URLhttps://proceedings.mlr.press/v235/du24e.
html.
Chen Gao, Xiaochong Lan, Zhihong Lu, Jinzhu Mao, Jinghua Piao, Huandong Wang, Depeng Jin, and Yong
Li. S3: Social-network simulation system with large language model-empowered agents.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.14984, 2023.
Mark S Granovetter. The strength of weak ties.American journal of sociology, 78(6):1360–1380, 1973.
Haoxiang Guan, Jiyan He, Liyang Fan, Zhenzhen Ren, Shaobin He, Xin Yu, Yuan Chen, Shuxin Zheng,
Tie-Yan Liu, and Zhen Liu. Modeling earth-scale human-like societies with one billion agents.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2506.12078, 2025.
Dongxin Guo, Jikun Wu, and Siu-Ming Yiu. Coalition formation in llm agent networks: Stability analysis
and convergence guarantees.arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.14386, 2026.
Taicheng Guo, Xiuying Chen, Yaqi Wang, Ruidi Chang, Shichao Pei, Nitesh V. Chawla, Olaf Wiest, and
Xiangliang Zhang. Large Language Model Based Multi-Agents: A Survey of Progress and Challenges.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.01680, 2024.
Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang,
Steven Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, et al. Metagpt: Meta programming for a multi-agent collaborative
framework. InInternational Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2024, pp. 23247–23275,
2024.
John J Horton, Apostolos Filippas, and Benjamin S Manning. Large language models as simulated economic
agents: What can we learn from homo silicus? Technical report, National Bureau of Economic Research,
2023.
Tianyu Hu, Zhen Tan, Song Wang, Huaizhi Qu, and Tianlong Chen. Multi-agent debate for llm judges with
adaptive stability detection.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 38:46504–46540, 2026.
Adit Jain and Vikram Krishnamurthy. Interacting Large Language Model Agents. Interpretable Models and
Social Learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01271, 2024.
Adit Jain, Vikram Krishnamurthy, and Yiming Zhang. Collaborative QA using Interacting LLMs. Impact
of Network Structure, Node Capability and Distributed Data.arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.14098, 2025a.
Adit Jain, Vikram Krishnamurthy, and Yiming Zhang. Information Diffusion and Preferential Attachment
in a Network of Large Language Models. In2025 IEEE 64th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC),
pp. 180–185, 2025b. doi: 10.1109/CDC57313.2025.11312386.
Harold J. Kushner and George G. Yin.Stochastic Approximation and Recursive Algorithms and Applications,
volume 35 ofApplications of Mathematics. Springer, New York, 2 edition, 2003.
Guohao Li, Hasan Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. Camel: Communicative
agents for" mind" exploration of large language model society.Advances in neural information processing
systems, 36:51991–52008, 2023.
Yunxuan Li, Yibing Du, Jiageng Zhang, Le Hou, Peter Grabowski, Yeqing Li, and Eugene Ie. Improving
Multi-Agent Debate with Sparse Communication Topology. InFindings of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pp. 7281–7294, 2024. URLhttps://aclanthology.org/2024.
findings-emnlp.427/.
Rui Luo, Buddhika Nettasinghe, and Vikram Krishnamurthy. Mutual Information Measure for Glass Ceiling
Effect in Preferential Attachment Models.IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems, 11(6):
7778–7788, 2024.
16
Hachem Madmoun and Salem Lahlou. Communication enables cooperation in llm agents: A comparison
with curriculum-based approaches. InProceedings of the 19th Conference of the European Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers), pp. 307–321, 2026.
Aliakbar Mehdizadeh and Martin Hilbert. Homophily-induced emergence of biased structures in llm-based
multi-agent ai systems.Social Network Analysis and Mining, 15(1):1–25, 2025.
Robert K Merton. The matthew effect in science: The reward and communication systems of science are
considered.Science, 159(3810):56–63, 1968.
Buddhika Nettasinghe, Nazanin Alipourfard, Stephen Iota, Vikram Krishnamurthy, and Kristina Lerman.
Scale-free degree distributions, homophily and the glass ceiling effect in directed networks.Journal of
complex networks, 10(2):cnac007, 2022.
Buddhika Nettasinghe, Nazanin Alipourfard, Vikram Krishnamurthy, and Kristina Lerman. Emergence of
structural disparities in the web of scientific citations. InProceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2026,
pp. 1785–1796, 2026.
Marios Papachristou and Yuan Yuan. Network formation and dynamics among multi-llms.PNAS nexus, 4
(12):pgaf317, 2025.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S
Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. InProceedings of the 36th annual
acm symposium on user interface software and technology, pp. 1–22, 2023.
Jinghua Piao, Yuwei Yan, Jun Zhang, Nian Li, Junbo Yan, Xiaochong Lan, Zhihong Lu, Zhiheng Zheng,
Jing Yi Wang, Di Zhou, Chen Gao, Fengli Xu, Fang Zhang, Ke Rong, Jun Su, and Yong Li. Agentsociety:
Large-scale simulation of llm-driven generative agents advances understanding of human behaviors and
society, 2026. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08691.
Derek De Solla Price. A general theory of bibliometric and other cumulative advantage processes.Journal
of the American society for Information science, 27(5):292–306, 1976.
Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng
Su, Xin Cong, et al. Chatdev: Communicative agents for software development. InProceedings of the 62nd
annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (volume 1: Long papers), pp. 15174–15186,
2024.
Chen Qian, Zihao Xie, Yifei Wang, Wei Liu, Kunlun Zhu, Hanchen Xia, Yufan Dang, Zhuoyun Du, Weize
Chen, Cheng Yang, et al. Scaling large language model-based multi-agent collaboration. InInternational
Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2025, pp. 41488–41505, 2025.
Philipp J Schneider, Lin Tian, and Marian-Andrei Rizoiu. Learning to make friends: Coaching llm agents
toward emergent social ties.arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.19299, 2025.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser,
and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need.Advances in neural information processing systems, 30,
2017.
Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang,
Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, et al. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08155, 2023.
17
Appendix
This appendix is organized into two main parts. Sec. A provides detailed proofs of the theoretical results
introduced in Sec. 3 of the main paper. Sec. B presents additional experimental details, including dataset
construction, agent interaction prompts, visualization of the LLM network formation process, and hyperpa-
rameter settings.
A Proofs for Section 3
Conditional expectation of the one-step communication increment.We first derive the conditional
expectation of the one-step weighted communication increment of TypeR. Recall that
∆t+1(R) =
(
∆t+1
in (R),∆ t+1
out (R)
)
,
where the incoming and outgoing components record the communication mass newly assigned to TypeRat
timet+ 1. Conditional onG t, we average over the three event types, the type of a newly introduced node
when applicable, and the source- and target-side sampling decisions.
For the incoming component, TypeRreceives communication mass precisely when the selected target has
TypeR. Hence,
E
[
∆t+1
in (R)|G t]
=pπ t
tgt,R[rµRR + (1−r)µ RB]
+qr
[
πt
src,RµRR +πt
src,BµRB
]
+ (1−p−q)π t
tgt,R
[
πt
src,RµRR +πt
src,BµRB
]
.
(13)
Here,µ ab denotes the expected normalized communication contribution from a Typebsource to a Typea
target. Thus, the incoming expression contains onlyµRR andµ RB, because the target type is fixed toR.
Similarly, TypeRreceives outgoing communication mass precisely when the selected source has TypeR.
Therefore,
E
[
∆t+1
out (R)|G t]
=pr
[
πt
tgt,RµRR +πt
tgt,BµBR
]
+qπ t
src,R[rµRR + (1−r)µ BR]
+ (1−p−q)π t
src,R
[
πt
tgt,RµRR +πt
tgt,BµBR
]
.
(14)
Thus,
E
[
∆t+1(R)|G t]
=
(
E
[
∆t+1
in (R)|G t]
,E
[
∆t+1
out (R)|G t])
.
Mean-field attachment probabilities and drift approximation.We next express the finite-time
attachment probabilities in terms of the communication-prominence stateΘt. Let
ν=p+q
denote the probability that a new node is introduced at each macro-step. Fors≥1, let
Is =1{a new node is introduced at times}, J s =1{a new TypeRnode is introduced at times}.
Then
Nt =N 0 +
t∑
s=1
Is, N t(R) =N 0(R) +
t∑
s=1
Js,
where
E[Is] =ν,E[J s] =νr.
Since
Dt
in =Dt
out =t1 d,
18
the attachment probabilities in (3) can be rewritten, fort≥1, as
πt
tgt,R = 1⊤
dθt
in +δ Nt(R)
t
d+δ Nt
t
, π t
src,R = 1⊤
dθt
out +ξ Nt(R)
t
d+ξ Nt
t
.(15)
The TypeBprobabilities satisfy
πt
tgt,B = 1−π t
tgt,R, π t
src,B = 1−π t
src,R.
By Hoeffding’s inequality, for everyη >0,
P
(⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐
1
t
t∑
s=1
Is −ν
⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐≥η
)
≤2 exp(−2tη2),
and
P
(⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐
1
t
t∑
s=1
Js −νr
⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐≥η
)
≤2 exp(−2tη2).
Consequently, with probability at least1−4 exp(−2tη2),
⏐⏐⏐⏐
Nt
t −ν
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤η+ N0
t ,
⏐⏐⏐⏐
Nt(R)
t −νr
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤η+ N0(R)
t .(16)
Define the deterministic mean-field attachment probabilities by
¯πtgt,R(θin) = 1⊤
dθin +νrδ
d+νδ ,¯π src,R(θout) = 1⊤
dθout +νrξ
d+νξ ,
and let
¯πtgt,B(θin) = 1−¯πtgt,R(θin),¯π src,B(θout) = 1−¯πsrc,R(θout).
Since the functions in (15) are Lipschitz inNt/tandN t(R)/t, there exists a constantCπ >0such that, on
the event in (16),
max
a∈{R,B}
⏐⏐πt
tgt,a −¯πtgt,a
(
θt
in
)⏐⏐
+ max
a∈{R,B}
⏐⏐πt
src,a −¯πsrc,a
(
θt
out
)⏐⏐≤Cπ
(
η+ N0
t
)
.
(17)
We may therefore define the mean-field drift
F(Θ) = (Fin(Θ),Fout(Θ)),
where
Fin(Θ) =p¯πtgt,R(θin) [rµRR + (1−r)µ RB]
+qr[¯πsrc,R(θout)µRR + ¯πsrc,B(θout)µRB]
+ (1−p−q)¯π tgt,R(θin) [¯πsrc,R(θout)µRR + ¯πsrc,B(θout)µRB],
(18)
and
Fout(Θ) =pr[¯πtgt,R(θin)µRR + ¯πtgt,B(θin)µBR]
+q¯πsrc,R(θout) [rµRR + (1−r)µ BR]
+ (1−p−q)¯π src,R(θout) [¯πtgt,R(θin)µRR + ¯πtgt,B(θin)µBR].
(19)
Combining (13), (14), and (17), there exists a constantCF >0such that
E
[
∆t+1(R)|G t]
−F(Θ t)

2 ≤CF
(
η+ N0
t
)
19
with probability at least1−4 exp(−2tη2).
In particular, choosing
ηt =
√
2 log(t+ 1)
t ,
the Borel–Cantelli lemma implies that
E
[
∆t+1(R)|G t]
=F(Θ t) +εt+1,
where, almost surely,
εt+1
2 =O
(√
log(t+ 1)
t + N0
t
)
.(20)
Contraction of the mean-field map.We next give a sufficient condition under which the mean-field
mapFis a contraction on[0,1] 2d. Assume that the type-pair expected communication weights are uniformly
bounded: there exists¯µ<∞such that
0≤µ ab,ℓ ≤¯µ, a,b∈{R,B}, ℓ∈{1,...,d}.
Let
Ltgt = 1
d+νδ , L src = 1
d+νξ .
By the definitions of the mean-field attachment probabilities, for everyj∈{1,...,d},
⏐⏐⏐⏐
∂¯πtgt,a
∂θin,j
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤Ltgt,
⏐⏐⏐⏐
∂¯πsrc,a
∂θout,j
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤Lsrc, a∈{R,B},
whereas the cross derivatives with respect to the other prominence component are zero.
Consider any output coordinateℓ∈{1,...,d}. Differentiating (18) and (19), every derivative term contains
one differentiated attachment probability and at most one remaining attachment probability, which lies in
[0,1]. Moreover, derivatives of complementary probabilities yield differences such asµ RR,ℓ −µRB,ℓ and
µRR,ℓ −µBR,ℓ, whose absolute values are bounded by¯µ. Since the coefficients associated with the three
event types sum to at most one, we obtain
⏐⏐⏐⏐
∂Fin,ℓ(Θ)
∂θin,j
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤¯µLtgt,
⏐⏐⏐⏐
∂Fin,ℓ(Θ)
∂θout,j
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤¯µLsrc,
and likewise ⏐⏐⏐⏐
∂Fout,ℓ(Θ)
∂θin,j
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤¯µLtgt,
⏐⏐⏐⏐
∂Fout,ℓ(Θ)
∂θout,j
⏐⏐⏐⏐≤¯µLsrc.
Therefore,
∥∇Fin,ℓ(Θ)∥2
2 ≤d¯µ2 (
L2
tgt +L2
src
)
,
and the same bound holds for∥∇Fout,ℓ(Θ)∥2
2. Hence, the JacobianJF(Θ)satisfies
∥JF(Θ)∥2 ≤∥JF(Θ)∥F ≤d¯µ
√
2
(
L2
tgt +L2src
)
=d¯µ
√
2
[ 1
(d+νδ) 2 + 1
(d+νξ) 2
]
=:ρδ,ξ.
Thus, whenever
ρδ,ξ <1,
the mean-value theorem gives
∥F(Θ)−F(Θ ′)∥2 ≤ρδ,ξ∥Θ−Θ ′∥2,Θ,Θ ′∈[0,1] 2d.
Therefore,Fis a contraction on[0,1] 2d. SinceFmaps[0,1] 2d into itself, the Banach fixed-point theorem
implies that there exists a uniqueΘ⋆ ∈[0,1] 2d satisfying
Θ⋆ =F(Θ ⋆).
20
B Experiment Details
This section provides additional implementation details for our experiments, including the construction of the
QA datasets, the interaction procedure at each network iteration, and the hyperparameter settings used for
different LLM families. These details are intended to make the experimental pipeline fully reproducible, from
assigning partial contexts to agents to recording LLM-mediated communication intensities and updating the
evolving network. All code and experiment scripts are available in the Anonymous GitHub repository.
B.1 Dataset Details
Synthetic Dataset Creation Pipeline
Collaborative QA.For collaborative QA, we directly use theFictiondataset introduced by (Jain et al.,
2025a). The dataset contains question–answer pairs about fictional facts grounded in narrative passages
from Project Gutenberg books. For each question, we use five partial context snippets such that the relevant
evidence is distributed across the snippets and cannot be fully recovered from a single context alone.
Multi-agent Debate.For multi-agent debate, we construct a synthetic dataset using Gemini-3.1-Pro.
We first prepare a topic list covering everyday scientific, social, and technology-related questions. For each
topic, the generator samples one conflict type from{none,apparent_conflict,real_conflict,mixed},and
generates a question, exactly five context snippets, and a gold answer. The generation prompt enforces that
the five contexts are jointly necessary, that the answer cannot be recovered from any single snippet alone,
and that the gold answer must synthesize evidence across all contexts. We validate each generated item
by checking the required fields, the context IDsC1,...,C 5, non-empty context text, and a complete gold
answer. For evaluation, we use Gemini-3.1-Pro as an LLM judge to compare each agent’s final response
against the gold answer and assign an answer-quality score in[0,1], where a higher score indicates closer
semantic agreement and factual consistency with the reference answer.
Both datasets are represented in the same five-context format:
{question,C1,C2,C3,C4,C5,Correct answer}.
Duringnetworkconstruction, eachagentisassignedonlyonecontextsnippet; thus, successfultaskcompletion
requires agents to exchange information and synthesize distributed evidence.
Dataset Examples
Tables 2 and 3 show one complete example from each dataset. Each example contains one question, five
context snippets, and one gold answer. During the experiment, the five snippets are assigned to different
agents, while the gold answer is used only for evaluation.
21
Table 2: One example from the Collaborative QA dataset.
Field Content
Question What was the place Spear praised as the northern fur trade’s home, built on fountain head of
gigantic water power?
C1 I ROMANCE AND ADVENTURE HER FATHER THE FREE TRADER It was September
9, 1896. From sunrise to sunset through mist, sunshine, shower, and shadow we travelled,
and the nearer we drew to our first destination, the wilder the country became, the more
water-fowl we saw, and the more the river banks were marked with traces of big game. Here
signs told us that three caribou had crossed the stream, there muddy water was still trickling
into the hoofprint of a moose, and yonder a bear had been fishing. Finally, the day of our
arrival dawned, and as I paddled, I spent much of the time dreaming of the adventure before
me. As our beautiful birchen craft still sped on her way, the handsome bow parted the
shimmering waters, and a passing breeze sent little running waves gurgling along her sides,
while the splendour of the autumn sun was reflected on a far-reaching row of dazzling ripples
that danced upon the water, making our voyageurs lower their eyes and the trader doze again.
There was no other sign of life except an eagle soaring in and out among the fleecy clouds
slowly passing overhead. All around was a panorama of enchanting forest.
C2 My travelling companion was a “Free Trader,” whose name was Spear—a tall, stoop-
shouldered man with heavy eyebrows and shaggy, drooping moustache. The way we met
was amusing. It happened in a certain frontier town. His first question was as to whether I
was single. His second, as to whether my time was my own. Then he slowly looked me over
from head to foot. He seemed to be measuring my stature and strength and to be noting the
colour of my eyes and hair.
C3 Narrowing his vision, he scrutinized me more carefully than before, for now he seemed to be
reading my character—if not my soul. Then, smiling, he blurted out:
C4 “Come, be my guest for a couple of weeks. Will you?” I laughed.
C5 He frowned. But on realizing that my mirth was caused only by surprise, he smiled again and
let flow a vivid description of a place he called Spearhead. It was the home of the northern
fur trade. It was the centre of a great timber region. It was the heart of a vast fertile belt
that was rapidly becoming the greatest of all farming districts. It was built on the fountain
head of gigantic water power.
Answer Spearhead.
22
Table 3: One example from the Multi-agent Debate dataset.
Field Content
Question Can consistent use of language learning apps lead to true fluency, or are they insufficient for
achieving advanced proficiency?
C1 Many language learning apps offer structured curricula for grammar, vocabulary acquisition,
and pronunciation practice through interactive exercises.
C2 Critics argue that solely relying on language apps cannot lead to true fluency, as they often
lack opportunities for spontaneous, unscripted conversational practice with native speakers.
C3 True language fluency encompasses not only linguistic accuracy but also pragmatic compe-
tence, cultural nuance, and the ability to adapt to diverse real-world communication scenarios.
C4 The progress achieved through language apps is highly dependent on the learner’s self-
discipline, consistent engagement with the material, and active participation in exercises.
C5 Whileappsareexcellentforbuildingfoundationalknowledgeanddrillingbasicskills, achieving
advanced proficiency typically requires integration with immersive experiences, direct native
speaker interaction, and advanced study resources beyond app content.
Answer Consistentuseoflanguagelearningappscanbehighlyeffectiveforbuildingfoundationalgram-
mar, vocabulary, and pronunciation skills, especially for beginners. However, solely relying
on these apps is generally insufficient for achieving true fluency. True fluency encompasses a
broader range of abilities, including pragmatic competence, cultural nuance, and the capability
for spontaneous, unscripted communication in diverse real-world scenarios, which apps often
lack. While apps are excellent tools for structured learning and basic skill drilling, achieving
advanced proficiency requires supplementing app usage with consistent self-discipline, active
engagement, and integration with immersive experiences, direct native speaker interaction,
and advanced study resources. Therefore, apps serve as valuable components but need to be
part of a broader, more diversified language learning strategy to reach comprehensive fluency.
23
B.2 Specific Prompt
Source proposal prompt.For a candidate directed interactionu→v, the source agentureceives the
identifiers, roles, and model specifications of both agents, together with its assigned context. It is then
prompted as follows:
You are the initiating agent in a collaborative QA network.
Source agent:
- id: {sender_id}
- role: {sender_role}
- model: {sender_model}
Target agent:
- id: {receiver_id}
- role: {receiver_role}
- model: {receiver_model}
Your assigned context:
{context}
Task:
Write a convincing paragraph to persuade the target agent to communicate and
collaborate with you on this QA task. Introduce yourself and focus on being
clear, motivating, and persuasive in your argument as to why this
collaboration is worthwhile. Do NOT return JSON or lists, only write one
persuasive paragraph.
The resulting pitch communicates the source agent’s perceived usefulness, including the unique evidence and
reasoning contribution that it can provide to the target agent.
Target acceptance prompt.The target agentvreceives the source context, source pitch, and proposed
communication intensities. It then decides whether to accept the interaction and, if accepted, specifies the
granted communication weight along three dimensions: token exchange, interaction frequency, and reasoning
effort.
You are the receiving agent in a collaborative QA network.
Target agent:
- id: {receiver_id}
- role: {receiver_role}
- model: {receiver_model}
Source agent:
- id: {sender_id}
- role: {sender_role}
- model: {sender_model}
Source context:
{context}
Source proposal (requested communication intensity):
- token_exchange: {proposed_tokens}
- interaction_frequency: {proposed_rounds}
- reasoning_effort: {proposed_reasoning}
Pitch from source:
{pitch}
Task:
Decide whether to accept this interaction proposal. If you reject, set accepted
to false and all three intensity keys to zero. If you accept, set accepted to
24
true and return the exact intensities you grant, each of which may be at or
below the proposed level.
IMPORTANT --- score each dimension independently when accepted:
- token_exchange, interaction_round, and reasoning_effort are three
separate axes.
- Do NOT copy one score to another or keep fixed ratios across dimensions.
- Use the full range on each axis when appropriate.
Return ONLY valid JSON with exactly these keys:
{
"accepted": <bool>,
"token_exchange": <int>,
"interaction_frequency": <int>,
"reasoning_effort": <int>
}
Base your decision solely on the agent you judge to be more reliable,
considering the persuasiveness, representativeness, and confidence of its
pitch. Do not include any other information.
To illustrate this dynamic network formation process, we visualize representative network snapshots in Fig. 6.
The figure shows how the LLM interaction network grows over time as new agents and directed communica-
tion edges are added. Node colors indicate the two agent types, Type R and Type B, and the snapshots at
different timesteps show the gradual emergence of a denser and more heterogeneous communication struc-
ture. Below each network snapshot, we further plot the corresponding in-degree and out-degree distributions.
These degree distributions exhibit a slowly decaying, heavy-tailed pattern rather than the sharply concen-
trated, exponentially decaying distribution expected in an Erdős–Rényi random graph. This indicates that
the formed LLM interaction network is not well described by an Erdős–Rényi model, but instead develops
heterogeneous connectivity with a small number of highly connected agents.
Figure 6: Visualization of the LLM network formation process. The snapshots show the evolving directed
interaction network at different timesteps, where red and blue nodes correspond to Type R and Type B
agents, respectively. Below each network snapshot, we plot the corresponding in-degree and out-degree dis-
tributions. The slowly decaying, heavy-tailed degree distributions indicate that the formed LLM interaction
network deviates from an Erdős–R’enyi random graph and exhibits heterogeneous connectivity with a small
number of highly connected agents.
25
B.3 Utility-Model Training Details
For each model pair, we train the type-specific pairwise utility model described in Sec. 5.1 on the collected
source–target interaction samples. The context embeddings and network-status representations are precom-
puted and kept fixed throughout optimization; only the type-specific projection matrices
P={Q R,QB,KR,KB,VR,VB}
are optimized. We use an attention dimension ofr= 32, three output dimensions corresponding to to-
ken budget, additional interaction rounds, and reasoning effort, and a six-dimensional source-status vector
consisting of the incoming and outgoing normalized communication states for these three resources.
WeoptimizetheutilitymodelusingAdamWwithlearningrate2×10 −3 andweightdecay10 −5. Gradientsare
clipped to have maximumℓ2-norm1.0. We train for10epochs. Since the predicted communication weights
are normalized over all candidate interactions within a network-formation event, each mini-batch contains
complete events rather than independently sampled pairwise interactions. We use mini-batches of8complete
events. The final trained model is used to estimate the type-pair expected utilitiesˆµRR,ˆµRB,ˆµBR,ˆµBB
from the held-out interaction samples. All experiments are implemented in PyTorch. Context embeddings
are precomputed using the frozen pretrainedsentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2encoder, which
produces384-dimensional normalized sentence embeddings.
B.4 Performance Metrics for Mean-field Dynamics ODE
In this section, we describe the metrics used to evaluate the predictive performance of the mean-field ODE,
including the relative mean squared error (MSE), relative Bias, the Ljung–Boxp-value, andMaxACF10.
For each collaborative QA casec, we initialize the mean-field ODE from the corresponding empirical initial
state and numerically solve it forT= 100network-formation time steps. Let ˆΘt
c ∈R 6 denote the resulting
ODE prediction at timet, and letΘt
c ∈R 6 denote the empirical type-level prominence trajectory observed
from the corresponding multi-agent simulation. We define the vector-valued residual by
ρt
c = ˆΘt
c −Θ t
c.
We evaluate trajectory accuracy using the case-level relative mean squared error
MSEc = 1
6T
T∑
t=1
6∑
j=1
(
ρt
c,j⏐⏐Θt
c,j
⏐⏐+ϵ
)2
and relative bias
Biasc = 1
6T
T∑
t=1
6∑
j=1
⏐⏐ρt
c,j
⏐⏐
⏐⏐Θt
c,j
⏐⏐+ϵ ,
whereϵ= 10 −4 is a small numerical constant that avoids division by zero. We report their averages across
all evaluation cases:
MSE = 1
|C|
∑
c∈C
MSEc,Bias = 1
|C|
∑
c∈C
Biasc.
Thus,MSEmeasures the average squared prediction discrepancy relative to the magnitude of the empirical
prominence trajectory across all coordinates, time steps, and evaluation cases.Biasmeasures the average
absolute relative prediction residual. SmallerMSEandBiasindicate closer agreement between the ODE
prediction and the empirical trajectory.·To assess whether the mean-field ODE leaves systematic temporal
dependence in the residuals, we apply a coordinate-wise Ljung–Box diagnostic to the residual sequence
{ρt
c}T
t=1. For each casec, residual dimensionj∈{1,...,6}, and lagℓ, define
¯ρc,j = 1
T
T∑
t=1
ρt
c,j,ˆr c,j(ℓ) =
∑T
t=ℓ+1
(
ρt
c,j −¯ρc,j
)(
ρt−ℓ
c,j −¯ρc,j
)
∑T
t=1
(
ρt
c,j −¯ρc,j
)2 .
26
The corresponding Ljung–Box statistic and coordinate-wisep-value at lag10are
Qc,j,10 =T(T+ 2)
10∑
ℓ=1
ˆrc,j(ℓ)2
T−ℓ , p c,j,10 = 1−F χ2
10
(Qc,j,10),
whereF χ2
10
denotes the cumulative distribution function of theχ2
10 distribution.
To obtain a conservative residual diagnostic for each case, we retain the smallest coordinate-wisep-value:
LBPc,10 = min
1≤j≤6
pc,j,10.
We then report the average across all evaluation cases:
LBP10 = 1
|C|
∑
c∈C
LBPc,10.
Thus,LBP 10 summarizes the residual coordinate with the strongest evidence of serial dependence within each
case. Larger values indicate weaker evidence of residual autocorrelation in the worst-performing coordinate,
on average across evaluation cases.
Finally, we measure the magnitude of the strongest remaining local residual dependence using
MaxACFc,10 = max
1≤j≤6
max
1≤ℓ≤10
|ˆrc,j(ℓ)|.
We then average this worst-case autocorrelation magnitude across evaluation cases:
MaxACF10 = 1
|C|
∑
c∈C
MaxACFc,10.
Thus,MaxACF 10 captures the largest absolute residual autocorrelation among all prominence coordinates
and the first ten lags within each case. Lower values indicate weaker residual temporal dependence and
therefore better agreement between the ODE dynamics and the observed trajectory evolution.
B.5 Hyperparameter Setting for LLMs
Table 4 summarizes the network-level hyperparameters. Unless otherwise stated, these are the default values
used in the implementation.
Table 4: Network-level hyperparameter settings.
Hyperparameter Value Description
T100 by default Number of macrosteps in one run
p0.25 Probability of Event 1
q0.25 Probability of Event 2
1−p−q0.50 Probability of Event 3
r0.50 Probability that a newly born node has typeR
M1 3 Number of trials in Event 1
M2 3 Number of trials in Event 2
M3 3 Number of trials in Event 3
d3 Number of communication-intensity dimensions
δ1.5 Incoming attachment smoothing constant
ξ1.5 Outgoing attachment smoothing constant
Initial nodes 2 per type Seed graph size
Max context length 2500 tokens Maximum snippet length assigned to an agent
Table 5 summarizes the LLMs used in our experiments. API keys are omitted from the paper. The decoding
and generation settings are listed below the table.
27
Table 5: LLMs used in the experiments.
Model family Model name
GPTgpt-4.1,gpt-4.1-mini
Geminigemini-2.5-flash-Lite,gemini-3.5-flash
LLaMALlama-3.1-8B-Instruct,Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
QwenQwen3-4B-Instruct-2507
MistralMinistral-3-8B-Instruct-2512
Grokgrok-4.20-0309-reasoning
B.6 Additional Results
We report two additional experiments that further assess the robustness of our main findings. First, we
present the cross-family comparison between open-source and proprietary LLM agents in this appendix. This
setting examines whether communication asymmetries persist when agent types differ not only in model scale
but also in model family and training provenance. Second, we repeat the prompt-induced heterogeneity ex-
periments with a GPT-based agent population, testing whether the role-dependent communication patterns
identified in the main text extend beyond the Gemini base model.
B.6.1 Cross-family heterogeneity
We further examine whether capability-aligned communication dominance persists across model families
with different architectures, training data, and deployment settings. Fig. 7 compares three proprietary–open-
source model pairs: GPT versus LLaMA, Gemini versus Qwen, and Grok versus Mistral. In each setting,
we measure the evolution of the type-level communication influence ratios and the resulting final agent-
level influence distributions. Across these cross-family comparisons, the proprietary model type generally
attains a higher communication influence ratio and occupies more central communication positions than its
open-source counterpart. These results show that capability-aligned preferential attachment is not limited to
model-scale differences within a single family, but can also emerge under broader cross-family heterogeneity.
Figure 7: Capability-aligned communication dominance under cross-family heterogeneity. We compare three
proprietary–open-source model pairs: GPT versus LLaMA, Gemini versus Qwen, and Grok versus Mistral.
Within each pair,Rdenotes the proprietary model andBdenotes the open-source model. The figure
reports the type-level communication influence ratiosIt(R)andI t(B), defined in (10), together with the
corresponding final agent-level influence distributions. Across the three model pairs,R-type agents generally
attain higher communication prominence and occupy more central network positions thanB-type agents,
demonstrating capability-aligned preferential attachment across model families.
28
B.6.2 Prompt-induced heterogeneity with GPT agents
We further test whether the prompt-induced glass-ceiling effect observed in the main text also arises in
GPT-based agent populations. Figure 8 considers three settings in which all agents use the same GPT base
model and differ only in their system-prompt roles:ExplainerversusVerifier,Comprehensive Analystversus
Selective Analyst, andProponentversusOpponent. Despite identical model weights within each setting,
the first role in each pair generally attains a higher communication influence over time and has a more
right-skewed final influence distribution. Thus, prompt-defined interaction roles alone can induce persistent
structural advantages among GPT agents, providing additional evidence that the glass-ceiling effect does
not require underlying differences in base-model capability.
Figure 8: Capability-misaligned communication dominance under prompt-induced glass-ceiling effects in
equal-GPT agents. All agents within each column use the same GPT base model and differ only in their
assigned system-prompt roles. From left to right, we compareExplainerversusVerifier,Comprehensive An-
alystversusSelective Analyst, andProponentversusOpponent. In each pair, TypeRdenotes the Explainer,
Comprehensive Analyst, or Proponent role, respectively, while TypeBdenotes the corresponding Verifier,
Selective Analyst, or Opponent role. The upper panels show the type-level communication influence ratios
It(R)andI t(B), defined in (10), and the lower panels show the final agent-level communication influence
distributions. Across all three role pairs, TypeRagents generally accumulate greater communication influ-
ence and exhibit a heavier right tail in the final distribution, showing that prompt-defined roles can induce
persistent communication asymmetry even when all agents have identical GPT model weights.
29