[1] H. J. Kimble. The quantum internet.Nature, 453(7198):1023–1030, 2008.
[2] Stephanie Wehner, David Elkouss, and Ronald Hanson. Quantum internet: A vision for the
road ahead.Science, 362(6412), October 2018.
[3] Khabat Heshami, Duncan G. England, Peter C. Humphreys, Philip J. Bustard, Victor M.
Acosta, JoshuaNunn, andBenjaminJ.Sussman. Quantummemories: emergingapplications
and recent advances.Journal of Modern Optics, 63(20):2005–2028, March 2016.
[4] H.-J. Briegel, W. Dür, J. I. Cirac, and P. Zoller. Quantum repeaters: The role of imperfect
local operations in quantum communication.Physical Review Letters, 81(26):5932–5935,
December 1998.
[5] Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, and Nicolas Gisin. Quan-
tum repeaters based on atomic ensembles and linear optics.Reviews of Modern Physics,
83(1):33–80, March 2011.
[6] Lijun Ma, Oliver Slattery, and Xiao Tang. Optical quantum memory and its applications in
quantum communication systems.Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology, 125, January 2020.
[7] Alexander I. Lvovsky, Barry C. Sanders, and Wolfgang Tittel. Optical quantum memory.
Nature Photonics, 3(12):706–714, December 2009.
[8] Yisheng Lei, Faezeh Kimiaee Asadi, Tian Zhong, Alex Kuzmich, Christoph Simon,
and Mahdi Hosseini. Quantum optical memory for entanglement distribution.Optica,
10(11):1511, November 2023.
[9] Zong-Quan Zhou, Chao Liu, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo, Daniel Oblak, Mi Lei, Andrei
Faraon, Margherita Mazzera, and Hugues de Riedmatten. Photonic integrated quantum
memory in rare-earth doped solids.Laser&amp; Photonics Reviews, 17(10), August 2023.
[10] M Bonarota, J-L Le Gouët, and T Chanelière. Highly multimode storage in a crystal.New
Journal of Physics, 13(1):013013, January 2011.
[11] Ya-Fen Hsiao, Pin-Ju Tsai, Hung-Shiue Chen, Sheng-Xiang Lin, Chih-Chiao Hung, Chih-Hsi
Lee, Yi-Hsin Chen, Yong-Fan Chen, Ite A. Yu, and Ying-Cheng Chen. Highly efficient co-
herent optical memory based on electromagnetically induced transparency.Physical Review
Letters, 120(18), May 2018.
[12] Valentina Parigi, Vincenzo D’Ambrosio, Christophe Arnold, Lorenzo Marrucci, Fabio Sciar-
rino, and Julien Laurat. Storage and retrieval of vector beams of light in a multiple-degree-
of-freedom quantum memory.Nature Communications, 6(1), 2015.
[13] Erhan Saglamyurek, Jeongwan Jin, Varun B. Verma, Matthew D. Shaw, Francesco Marsili,
Sae Woo Nam, Daniel Oblak, and Wolfgang Tittel. Quantum storage of entangled telecom-
wavelength photons in an erbium-doped optical fibre.Nature Photonics, 9(2):83–87, January
2015.
[14] Kai Shinbrough, Donny R. Pearson, Bin Fang, Elizabeth A. Goldschmidt, and Virginia O.
Lorenz. Chapter five - broadband quantum memory in atomic ensembles. In Louis F.
DiMauro, Hélène Perrin, and Susanne F. Yelin, editors,Advances in Atomic, Molecular,
and Optical Physics, volume 72 ofAdvances In Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics,
pages 297–360. Academic Press, 2023.
[15] Mikael Afzelius, Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, and Nicolas Gisin. Multimode
quantum memory based on atomic frequency combs.Physical Review A, 79(5), May 2009.
[16] Manjin Zhong, Morgan P. Hedges, Rose L. Ahlefeldt, John G. Bartholomew, Sarah E.
Beavan, Sven M. Wittig, Jevon J. Longdell, and Matthew J. Sellars. Optically addressable
nuclear spins in solid with a six-hour coherence time.Nature, 517(7533):177–180, January
2015.
17
[17] Nicolas Maring, Pau Farrera, Kutlu Kutluer, Margherita Mazzera, Georg Heinze, and
Hugues de Riedmatten. Photonic quantum state transfer between a cold atomic gas and a
crystal.Nature, 551(7681):485–488, November 2017.
[18] Nathan T. Arnold, Michelle Victora, Michael E. Goggin, and Paul G. Kwiat. Broad-
bandwidth photonic quantum memory. InQuantum 2.0 Conference and Exhibition, QUAN-
TUM, page QM4B.3. Optica Publishing Group, 2022.
[19] Sandra Cheng, Carson Evans, and Todd Pittman. Fiber-coupled broadband quantum mem-
ory for polarization-encoded photonic qubits.npj Quantum Information, 11(1), October
2025.
[20] Kim Fook Lee, Gamze Gül, Zhao Jim, and Prem Kumar. Fiber loop quantum buffer for
photonic qubits.New Journal of Physics, 26(8):083011, August 2024.
[21] O. A. Collins, S. D. Jenkins, A. Kuzmich, and T. A. B. Kennedy. Multiplexed memory-
insensitive quantum repeaters.Physical Review Letters, 98(6), February 2007.
[22] GovindP.Agrawal. (invited)storybehindthenonlinearfiberopticsbook.Optik, 277:170715,
April 2023.
[23] IvanCardea, DavideGrassani, JeremyUpham, SebastianA.Schulz, KosmasL.Tsakmakidis,
and Camille-Sophie Brès. Unconventional time-bandwidth performance of resonant cavities
with nonreciprocal coupling.Physical Review A, 103(1), January 2021.
[24] Matthew A Hall, Joseph B Altepeter, and Prem Kumar. All-optical switching of photonic
entanglement.New Journal of Physics, 13(10):105004, October 2011.
[25] Ashutosh Singh, Anuj Sethia, Leili Esmaeilifar, Raju Valivarthi, Neil Sinclair, Maria Spirop-
ulu, and Daniel Oblak. Photonic quantum information with time-bins: Principles and ap-
plications, 2025.
[26] I. Marcikic, H. de Riedmatten, W. Tittel, V. Scarani, H. Zbinden, and N. Gisin. Time-
bin entangled qubits for quantum communication created by femtosecond pulses.Physical
Review A, 66(6), December 2002.
[27] Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Sangouard, Hugo
Zbinden, and Nicolas Gisin. Quantum repeaters with photon pair sources and multimode
memories.Physical Review Letters, 98(19), May 2007.
[28] Pierre Jobez, Cyril Laplane, Nuala Timoney, Nicolas Gisin, Alban Ferrier, Philippe Goldner,
andMikaelAfzelius. Coherentspincontrolatthequantumlevelinanensemble-basedoptical
memory.Physical Review Letters, 114(23), 2015.
[29] Neil Sinclair, Erhan Saglamyurek, Hassan Mallahzadeh, Joshua A. Slater, Mathew George,
Raimund Ricken, Morgan P. Hedges, Daniel Oblak, Christoph Simon, Wolfgang Sohler,
and Wolfgang Tittel. Spectral multiplexing for scalable quantum photonics using an atomic
frequency comb quantum memory and feed-forward control.Physical Review Letters, 113(5),
2014.
[30] J. Nunn, K. Reim, K. C. Lee, V. O. Lorenz, B. J. Sussman, I. A. Walmsley, and D. Jaksch.
Multimode memories in atomic ensembles.Physical Review Letters, 101(26), December
2008.
[31] Jian-Shun Tang, Zong-Quan Zhou, Yi-Tao Wang, Yu-Long Li, Xiao Liu, Yi-Lin Hua, Yang
Zou, Shuang Wang, De-Yong He, Geng Chen, Yong-Nan Sun, Ying Yu, Mi-Feng Li, Guo-
Wei Zha, Hai-Qiao Ni, Zhi-Chuan Niu, Chuan-Feng Li, and Guang-Can Guo. Storage of
multiple single-photon pulses emitted from a quantum dot in a solid-state quantum memory.
Nature Communications, 6(1), October 2015.
[32] Christoph Clausen, Imam Usmani, Félix Bussières, Nicolas Sangouard, Mikael Afzelius,
Hugues de Riedmatten, and Nicolas Gisin. Quantum storage of photonic entanglement in a
crystal.Nature, 469(7331):508–511, January 2011.
[33] Erhan Saglamyurek, Neil Sinclair, Jeongwan Jin, Joshua A. Slater, Daniel Oblak, Félix Bus-
sières, Mathew George, Raimund Ricken, Wolfgang Sohler, and Wolfgang Tittel. Broadband
waveguide quantum memory for entangled photons.Nature, 469(7331):512–515, January
2011.
18
[34] Duncan G. England, Kent A.G. Fisher, Jean-Philippe W. MacLean, Philip J. Bustard,
Rune Lausten, Kevin J. Resch, and Benjamin J. Sussman. Storage and retrieval of thz-
bandwidth single photons using a room-temperature diamond quantum memory.Physical
Review Letters, 114(5), February 2015.
[35] Fumihiro Kaneda, Bradley G. Christensen, Jia Jun Wong, Hee Su Park, Kevin T. McCusker,
and Paul G. Kwiat. Time-multiplexed heralded single-photon source.Optica, 2(12):1010,
November 2015.
[36] Fumihiro Kaneda, Feihu Xu, Joseph Chapman, and Paul G. Kwiat. Quantum-memory-
assisted multi-photon generation for efficient quantum information processing.Optica,
4(9):1034, August 2017.
[37] PhilipJ.Bustard, KentBonsma-Fisher, CyrilHnatovsky, DanGrobnic, StephenJ.Mihailov,
Duncan England, and Benjamin J. Sussman. Toward a quantum memory in a fiber cavity
controlled by intracavity frequency translation.Physical Review Letters, 128(12), March
2022.
[38] M. Asobe, H. Itoh, T. Miyazawa, and T. Kanamori. Efficient and ultrafast all-optical switch-
ing using high𝛿𝑛, small core chalcogenide glass fibre.Electronics Letters, 29(22):1966–1968,
October 1993.
19
SupplementaryInformationfor“AUniversalAll-FiberQuan-
tum Buffer for the Telecom Band”
S1 Cross-phase modulation in optical fibers
Our fiber-loop quantum buffer exploits cross-phase modulation (XPM) to implement all-optical
switching. XPM is a third-order Kerr nonlinear effect in which the intensity of a control field
modifies the refractive index experienced by a signal field, thereby inducing a nonlinear phase
shift. The resulting phase shift,Δ𝜑 XPM, is proportional to the control-pulse peak power and
depends on the relative polarization of the interacting fields through a coefficient𝑘= 2for
copolarized fields and𝑘= 2/3for orthogonally polarized fields. It can be written as:1
Δ𝜑XPM
signal =𝑘 𝑛2𝜔signal
𝑐𝐴eff
𝐿int𝑃control (S1)
where𝑛 2 is the nonlinear Kerr coefficient,𝜔signal is the signal angular frequency,𝑐is the
speed of light in vacuum,𝐿int is the interaction length,𝑃control is the control-pulse peak power
and𝐴 eff is the effective signal-control modal overlap area calculated as:
𝐴eff = 𝜋
8 (MFD2
signal + MFD2
control)(S2)
whereMFD signal = (10.4±0.5)𝜇mis the Gaussian mode-field diameter of the signal field
at1550 nm, 2 whileMFD control = (7.8±0.2)𝜇mis the Gaussian mode-field diameter of the
control field at1064 nm, obtained from TE-polarized mode simulations performed with the
finite-difference eigenmode (FDE) solver in Lumerical MODE.
Since the XPM-induced phase shift depends on the relative signal-control polarization, polar-
ization fluctuations during propagation lead to fluctuations in the nonlinear phase shift and, con-
sequently, in the switching efficiency. To remove this sensitivity, we use a polarization-insensitive
XPM scheme based on two temporally overlapped control pulses with orthogonal polarizations,
equal peak powers, and slightly different wavelengths.3 In this configuration, any signal polar-
ization can be expressed in the basis defined by the two orthogonal control polarizations, so that
each component experiences one copolarized and one orthogonally polarized control contribution.
The two contributions in Eq. S1 therefore add up, giving:
Δ𝜑XPM
signal =
(︂
2 + 2
3
)︂ 𝑛2𝜔signal
𝑐𝐴eff
𝐿int𝑃control (S3)
where𝑃 control is now the peak power of each control pulse. Since the two orthogonally
polarized control pulses are set to have equal peak power, the total control power is𝑃tot =
2𝑃control. The polarization-insensitive XPM phase shift can therefore be expressed in terms of
𝑃tot as:
Δ𝜑XPM
signal = 4
3
𝑛2𝜔signal
𝑐𝐴eff
𝐿int𝑃tot.(S4)
Although the effective nonlinear coefficient4/3is lower than the value obtained for perfectly
copolarizedsignalandcontrolfields, thisconfigurationmakestheinducedphaseshiftindependent
of the input signal polarization, provided that the two control pulses are balanced in power and
temporally overlapped.
S2 Switching efficiency
We performed a switching-efficiency characterization to identify the control-pulse conditions
that maximize the XPM-induced transmission of the Sagnac interferometers. We report the
measurement performed on the input Sagnac interferometer, S1. The Sagnac interferometer
under test was initially adjusted to its reflective state using the intraloop fiber polarization
1Yariv, A. & Yeh, P. Photonics. Optical Electronics in Modern Communications 10th Anniversary Edition
(Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2006)
2Corning Incorporated. Corning®SMF-28®Ultra Optical Fiber Product Information Available
at: https://www.corning.com/media/worldwide/ coc/documents/Fiber/product-information-sheets/PI-1470-
AEN. pdf. 2020.
3Bülow, H. & Veith, G. Polarisation-independent switching in a nonlinear optical loop mirror by a dual-
wavelength switching pulse. Electronics Letters29, 588–589 (7 1993)
20
controller, while the other Sagnac interferometer was configured to be transmissive and therefore
acted only as a delay line. The two orthogonally polarized control pulses injected into the buffer
had a duration of𝜏control = 30 nsand a repetition rate of𝑅control = 100 kHz.
In this configuration, the signal transmitted through the buffer was recorded on a photodetec-
tor while varying the total peak power𝑃peak,tot of the combined control field. For each setting,
the total average power𝑃avg,tot was measured with a power meter, and the corresponding total
peak power was obtained as:
𝑃peak,tot = 𝑃avg,tot
Duty cycle = 𝑃avg,tot
𝑅control ·𝜏control
.(S5)
The acquired signal was compared with a reference signal obtained when both Sagnac inter-
ferometers were configured in the transmissive state. This reference includes the passive losses
of the open-buffer configuration, but does not include the XPM-induced losses. The switching
efficiency𝜂 𝑆1 was calculated as the ratio between the integrated area of the switched signal,
𝐴Switched, and that of the reference signal,𝐴Reference:
𝜂𝑆1 = 𝐴Switched
𝐴Reference
.(S6)
The result for S1 is shown in Fig. S1; similar performance was verified for S2. The XPM-
induced phase shift increases with𝑃peak,tot, leading to a larger transmitted fraction until the
optimal switching condition is reached. At higher powers, the phase shift exceeds the optimum
value and the switching efficiency decreases. The maximum switching efficiency measured for S1
is:
𝜂𝑆1 = (1.009±0.014) at𝑃 peak,tot = (13.0±0.2) W.(S7)
We compare this value with the control power expected from the XPM model introduced in
Sec. S1. SubstitutingΔ𝜑XPM
signal =𝜋,𝑛 2 = (2.96±0.15)×10 −20 m2/W,𝐴 eff = (66.4±0.5)𝜇m 2
(see Eq.S2), and𝐿int = (105±1) minto Eq. S4 gives an expected total control peak power
of𝑃 tot = (12.4±1.4) Wfor the polarization-insensitive configuration. This value is in good
agreement with the measured optimum reported in Eq. S7.
2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Control pulse peak power [W]
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Switching efficiency
Sagnac S1
Figure S1:Switching efficiency of S1 as a function of the total control-pulse peak
power.The measurement was performed on the input Sagnac interferometer, S1, using two
temporally overlapped control pulses with orthogonal polarizations and equalized powers. The
horizontal axis reports the total peak power𝑃peak,tot of the combined control field. The switching
efficiency was obtained by normalizing the integrated area of the switched signal to that of a
reference signal acquired with both Sagnac interferometers set to the transmissive state. The
maximum switching efficiency and the corresponding control-pulse peak power are reported in
Eq. S7.
21
S3 Photon-pair source characterization
To select the appropriate operating regime for our integrated source in the final experiments, we
first characterized its performance. In particular, we investigated the generation of photon pairs
through Spontaneous Four Wave Mixing (SFWM) in a16 mm-long low-loss silicon-on-insulator
(SOI) rib waveguide. The waveguide was fabricated on a silicon device layer with a thickness
of310 nm. The rib structure features a3µmwide base and a450 nmwide rib, etched to a
depth of150 nm, leaving a160 nmslab. This geometry defines a single-mode guiding structure,
which we used as an integrated source of entangled photon pairs. In the final experiments, a
20 mm-long SOI rib waveguide with the same geometry and nearly identical performance was
employed. Both SOI platforms were realized in collaboration with the CEA-Leti research center
in Grenoble, France, by deep ultraviolet lithography. The characterization consisted of identify-
ing the pump-pulse peak power that simultaneously maximizes the photon-pair generation rate
while ensuring operation in the low-squeezing regime, where multi-pair generation is negligible,
and maintaining a high signal-to-noise ratio. We tested the source using a pump configuration
that reproduced the early–late time-bin structure used in the final experiment, although with a
different repetition rate and pulse duration. In particular, pairs of early and late pump pulses
were sent to the waveguide to generate entangled photon pairs in either the early or late time bin.
After the generation stage, signal and idler photons were separated by dense wavelength-division
multiplexing (DWDM) filters and detected with two superconducting nanowire single-photon
detectors (SNSPDs).
To analyze the SFWM process, we collected coincidence counts while varying the peak power
of the pump pulses injected into the waveguide by using a variable optical attenuator (VOA).
Coincidence counts were obtained by recording signal and idler arrival times on the SNSPDs with
respect to the pump-laser reference clock, using time-tagging electronics. From the coincidence
data, we extracted the internal generation rate, the pair generation probability per pulse, and the
coincidence-to-accidentals ratio (CAR), which quantifies the contrast between true photon-pair
coincidences and accidental background events. Results are shown in log-log scale in Fig. S2.
FigureS2:Integratedwaveguidesourcecharacterization:generationrate, pairprobability,
and coincidence-to-accidentals ratio (CAR) as a function of coupled pump-pulse peak power. (a)
Internal generation rate (left axis) and pair generation probability per pulse (right axis). (b)
Coincidence-to-accidentals ratio (CAR), quantifying the signal-to-noise ratio of the generated
photon pairs.
From these results, we chose an on-chip pump-pulse peak power of approximately 20 mW.
In the 100 kHz characterization measurement (1 ns pulse width), this operating point yielded
an internal generation rate of approximately 5 kHz, a pair generation probability per pulse of
approximately10 −2, and a CAR of approximately 30. The pair generation probability per pulse
and the CAR indicate operation in the low-squeezing regime. Because the final experiments used
a different repetition rate and pulse duration (1 GHz and 9 ps), the absolute internal generation
rate of the final setup is not inferred from the 100 kHz data. Instead, this characterization
was used to identify a conservative on-chip peak-power range for operating the source in a low-
squeezing regime.
22
S4 Raman and photoluminescence noise characterization
The 1060 nm control pulses used to switch the Sagnac loops introduced a small amount of
noise in the telecom band, mainly due to Raman scattering and other weak photoluminescence
contributions. In order to characterize this contribution, we operated the quantum buffer without
injecting any signal. First, we performed a time-resolved characterization in which we operated
the buffer with an input/output rate of 100 kHz and filtered the output with a 100 GHz spectral
filter centered at ITU CH21 before the detectors. The results, acquired with an integration time
of 300 s and a time resolution of 100 ps, are shown in Fig. S3. A weak optical signal was
detectable in temporal correspondence with the arrival of the control pulses: the average counts
in Fig. S3 on the plateau were850.6±34.8. After accounting for the filtering losses, detector
efficiency, repetition rate, and integration time, this noise level corresponds to(4.9±0.2)×10−4
photons per nm of bandwidth per ns.
To evaluate the effect of this very low Raman-noise level on representative quantum-network
operation, we considered two extreme cases: broadband 10 nm photons detected with 100 ps
timing resolution (although commercial detectors can reach close to 10 ps time resolution), and
long photons with 1 ns coherence time filtered with a 100 GHz bandwidth (although filters with
bandwidth <10 GHz are commercially available). In both cases, Raman noise would impose an
upper bound of approximately 2000 on the signal-to-noise ratio. Most practical operating condi-
tions are less demanding than these two limiting cases. For instance, the quantum measurements
reported in this work were carried out with a resolution of 70 ps on 10 ps long photons and a
spectral filtering bandwidth of 100 GHz: in our case Raman noise would limit the signal-to-noise
ratio to about 35000 and was not detectable in the experiments.
Figure S3: Noise induced by 30 ns long control pulses at 1060 nm within the 100 GHz bandwidth
of ITU channel 21. The integration time was 300 s.
The spectral dependence of the noise was measured by operating the buffer without injecting
any signal as described above but using the spectrometer and the CCD camera instead of the
SNSPD. Results are shown in Fig. S4. The noise remained below1.5×10−3 across the entire
telecom C-band (ITU channels 16 to 60) and below3×10−3 over the whole investigated range.
Such low levels were compatible with quantum experiments over the entire operation bandwidth
of the quantum buffer. They were not expected to limit the single-photon fidelity, entanglement
visibility, or multiplexing measurements reported in this work. Accordingly, no Raman-noise
subtraction was required in the reported quantum data.
23
Figure S4: Spectrum of the control-pulse-induced noise, including Raman scattering and other
photoluminescence contributions, measured with the spectrometer and CCD camera.
24
S5 Experimental setup
The experimental platform used throughout this work is schematically shown in Fig. S5. All ex-
periments relied on the same fiber-loop quantum buffer and differed only in the state-preparation
and analysis stages inserted before and after the buffer.
Photon pairs were generated by SFWM in a silicon waveguide pumped by a pulsed laser
centered on ITU channel 23 and operating at a repetition rate of 1 GHz. The generated photons
were then spectrally separated by DWDM filters with a 100 GHz bandwidth. The signal photon
was selected in ITU channel 21 and sent to the buffer through port A, while the idler photon was
selected in ITU channel 25 and sent directly to the detection system, where it was used either
as a herald or as the second photon in coincidence measurements.
OpticalswitchinginthebufferwasbasedonXPMbetweenthesignalfieldand1060nmoptical
control fields, which were spectrally cleaned by band-pass filters centered at 1060 nm before
being injected from port B (propagating in the opposite direction with respect to the signal).
To make the switching operation insensitive to the polarization state of the stored photons, the
control fields were implemented using two 1060 nm control lasers with orthogonal polarizations,
combined on a polarization beam splitter before injection into the buffer.4 5 The control pulses
were driven by electronic pulse generators, whose clocks were derived from the 1 GHz pump laser.
By adjusting their repetition rate and relative delays, the control pulses were made to temporally
overlap with the target signal pulses inside the appropriate Sagnac interferometer, namely S1
for input and S2 for retrieval operations. The precise temporal synchronization between the
generated signal photons and the optical control pulses, together with the tunable control-pulse
duration set between 1 and 50 ns, defined the temporal switching window of the buffer. This
enabled selective input, storage, and retrieval of the desired temporal modes.
After being retrieved from port B, the signal pulse passed through a 1500 nm long-pass filter
to suppress residual 1060 nm control-field components before reaching the detection stage. For
heralded single-photon and time-bin entanglement experiments, the retrieved signal was also
detected by an SNSPD and correlated with the idler using a coincidence counter.
For the measurements performed with attenuated classical pulses, the same input and output
paths of the buffer were used, but the photon-pair source was removed and the 1 GHz pump laser
was sent directly to the buffer. Moreover, the detection stage consisted of either a photodetector
for time-resolved analysis or a CCD camera for spectral analysis.
To isolate the contribution of the buffer, reference measurements were performed by replacing
it with a short fiber bypass connecting port A directly to port B. In this configuration, the
signal followed the default input and output paths, but did not propagate through the loop.
Normalization to this bypass reference removed only the contributions common to the bypass and
buffer configurations, including source, coupling, shared filtering, and detection losses. Therefore,
the extracted quantities reflected the additional losses and noise introduced by the double-Sagnac
buffer module, including the Sagnac interferometers, the wavelength selective beamsplitters and
the output filter.
4M. A. Hall, J. B. Altepeter, and P. Kumar, Phys. Rev. Lett.106, 053901 (2011)
5H. Bülow and G. Veith, Electron. Lett.29, 588 (1993)
25
optical ﬁber
wavelength selective 
beamsplitter
optical ﬁltering stage
ﬁber polarization 
controller
1060 nm/1550 nm 
wavelength 
division multiplexer
ﬁber collimator
SNSPD
ITU CH 21
ps pulsed laser source  
ITU CH 23 (1 GHz rep rate)
silicon waveguide
ITU CH 25
DWDM port A
port B
ﬁber 
bypass
coincidence 
counter
SNSPD
S1
S2
pulse generator polarizing 
beam splitter
ns pulsed lasers 
1060 nm (1-50 ns)
Figure S5: Experimental setup used to characterize the fiber-loop quantum buffer. A 9 ps pulsed
laser centered on ITU channel 23 and operating at 1 GHz pumps a silicon waveguide, where
photon pairs are generated by SFWM. The generated photons are separated by 100 GHz DWDM
filters, with the signal photon selected in ITU channel 21 and injected into the buffer through
port A, while the idler photon is selected in ITU channel 25 and sent directly to the SNSPD.
Optical switching of the buffer is driven by 1060 nm control pulses. To make the switching
operation insensitive to the polarization state of the stored photons, two 1060 nm control lasers
with orthogonal polarizations are combined on a polarization beam splitter. Before entering
the buffer from port B, the combined control radiation is spectrally cleaned by a band-pass
filter centered at 1060 nm and then injected into the buffer counterpropagating with respect to
the signal. The control lasers are driven by programmable pulse generators synchronized to the
1 GHz pump-laser clock, enabling selective loading and retrieval of chosen temporal modes. After
retrieval from port B, the signal photon passes through a 1500 nm long-pass filter to suppress
residual 1060 nm control-field components. The signal is then detected by an SNSPD and
correlated with the idler detection for heralded and coincidence measurements. A short fiber
bypass connecting port A directly to port B provides a reference measurement that removes
common setup contributions from the measured quantities and therefore isolates the losses and
noise introduced by the double-Sagnac buffer.
26
S5.1 Optical losses
The lifetime extracted from the linear characterization corresponds to a fiber-loop round-trip
loss of0.24 dB. This value can be independently estimated from a passive-loss budget of the
cavity, including the two Sagnac interferometers and the central connections between them.
ThelosscontributionofeachSagnacinterferometerwasestimatedfromthemeasuredsplitting
coefficients of its fiber coupler together with the loop propagation and splice losses. For a Sagnac
interferometer set in the reflective state, the reflected power is given by:
|𝑟SI|2 = 4𝑘2𝜉2𝑒−𝛼𝐿 (S8)
where𝑘 2 and𝜉 2 are the straight-through and cross power coefficients of the fiber coupler, re-
spectively, and𝑒−𝛼𝐿 is the loop attenuation factor accounting for propagation and splice losses
inside the Sagnac interferometer.
The parameters used for the estimate are reported in Table S1. The coupler coefficients were
independently measured and are reported in dB. They were converted to linear power coefficients
as:
𝑘2 = 10𝑘2
dB/10, 𝜉 2 = 10𝜉2
dB/10 (S9)
For each Sagnac, the loop attenuation factor associated with propagation and splice losses was
calculated as:
𝑒−𝛼𝐿𝑖 = 10−2(2ℓsp+𝛼f𝐿𝑖)/10 (S10)
where𝑖= 1,2labels the two Sagnac interferometers,ℓ sp is the loss of a single splice,𝛼f is the
fiber propagation loss indB/km, and𝐿𝑖 is the loop length. The term2ℓsp accounts for the two
splices inside each Sagnac loop, while the prefactor 2 accounts for the symmetric contribution of
the clockwise (CW) and counter-clockwise (CCW) fields.
Using𝐿1 =𝐿2 ∼105 m,𝛼 f = 0.18 dB/km, 6 andℓsp = 0.01 dB, 7 we obtain𝑒−𝛼𝐿𝑖 ∼0.9822.
For the first Sagnac interferometer, the measured coupler coefficients are𝑘2
dB =−3.03 dB
and𝜉 2
dB =−3.02 dB, corresponding to𝑘 2 = 0.4977and𝜉 2 = 0.4989. The resulting reflectivity
of the first Sagnac interferometer, calculated from Eq. (S8), is|𝑟S1|2 ∼0.9755. Expressed as an
equivalent mirror lossℓS1, this gives:
ℓS1 =−10 log 10
(︀
|𝑟S1|2)︀
∼0.107 dB(S11)
Analogously, for the second Sagnac interferometer, using𝑘2
dB =−3.13 dBand𝜉 2
dB =−2.93 dB,
we obtain|𝑟S2|2 ∼0.9733corresponding to an equivalent mirror lossℓS2 of:
ℓS2 =−10 log 10
(︀
|𝑟S2|2)︀
∼0.117 dB(S12)
The total optical loss per cavity round trip,ℓb, is then obtained by summing the two Sagnac
mirror losses and the two central splice losses connecting the interferometers:
ℓb =ℓS1 +ℓS2 + 2ℓsp (S13)
Substituting the estimated valuesℓb ∼0.244 dB. This corresponds to a buffer input/output
efficiency𝜂 b:
𝜂b = 10−ℓb/10 ∼0.945(S14)
This independent estimate is in good agreement with the round-trip loss extracted from the
memory lifetime measurement.
S6 Experimental datasets
In this section, we report representative datasets used to evaluate the state-preservation perfor-
mance of the buffer across different encoding schemes, including time-bin, polarization-bin, and
frequency-bin states.
Time-bin fidelities were measured using heralded single photons generated by SFWM, as
described in Sec. 3.1 and in the Methods section of the main text. Time-bin entanglement
6Corning Incorporated. Corning®SMF-28®Ultra Optical Fiber Product Information Available
at: https://www.corning.com/media/worldwide/ coc/documents/Fiber/product-information-sheets/PI-1470-
AEN. pdf. 2020.
7Corning SMF-28 Ultra Optical Fiber Fusion Splicing Report. Corning application note.
https://www.corning.com/media/worldwide/coc/documents/Fiber/application-notes/AN2008.pdf (2017)
27
Table S1: Parameters used to estimate the optical round-trip loss of the fiber-loop memory.
Parameter Sagnac 1 (S1) Sagnac 2 (S2)
Loop length𝐿𝑖 105 m 105 m
Fiber propagation loss𝛼f 0.18 dB/km 0.18 dB/km
Splice lossℓsp 0.01 dB 0.01 dB
Straight-through coefficient𝑘2
dB −3.03 dB−3.13 dB
Cross coefficient𝜉2
dB −3.02 dB−2.93 dB
measurements were performed using the configuration described in Sec. 3.2 of the main text. In
contrast, polarization-bin and frequency-bin fidelities were measured using attenuated classical
laser pulses, as described in Sec. 4 of the main text. Regardless of the encoding scheme, each
input state can be written in the following general form:
|𝜓⟩= cos𝜃|0⟩+𝑒 𝑖𝜑sin𝜃|1⟩(S15)
where the basis states|0⟩and|1⟩correspond to the two modes of the specific encoding: early|𝐸⟩
and late|𝐿⟩temporal modes for time-bin qubits, horizontal|𝐻⟩and vertical|𝑉⟩polarizations for
polarization-bin qubits, and two optical frequency components red|𝑅⟩and blue|𝐵⟩, separated
by the modulation frequency𝑓𝑅𝐹, for frequency-bin qubits.
The output state retrieved from the buffer was reconstructed after different numbers of round
trips and compared with a reference input state measured by replacing the buffer with a short
fiber bypass. This reference measurement includes the nonidealities of the state-preparation and
analysis stages. As a result, the reported fidelities quantify the degradation introduced by the
buffer with respect to the experimentally prepared input state, rather than the distance from
the nominal ideal state.
Given a reconstructed output density matrix𝜌out, the fidelity was calculated with respect
to the corresponding bypass reference state. When the reference is described by the pure state
|𝜓in⟩, the fidelity𝐹is given by:
𝐹=⟨𝜓 in|𝜌out |𝜓in⟩(S16)
The datasets reported below show the reconstructed values of𝜃,𝜑,𝐹, and the corresponding
density matrices as a function of the number of buffer round trips.
S6.1 Time-bin heralded single photons
The time-bin heralded single-photon dataset was acquired using the heralded SFWM source
and the interferometric preparation-and-analysis configuration described in Sec. 3.1 and in the
Methods section of the main text. More specifically, signal photons generated by SFWM in the
Si waveguide were selected in ITU channel 21 and encoded in the time-bin basis defined by the
early|𝐸⟩and late|𝐿⟩temporal modes, separated by 300 ps. Idler photons in ITU channel 25
were detected by an SNSPD and used as heralds. The reconstructed states were obtained from
signal-idler coincidence measurements.
Two configurations were tested: an independent preparation-and-analysis configuration, us-
ing two separate unbalanced Mach–Zehnder interferometers, and a self-referenced configuration,
using the same interferometer for both preparation and projection.
S6.1.1 Independent state generation and projection
Intheindependentpreparation-and-analysisconfiguration, thetime-binqubitwaspreparedusing
an unbalanced Mach–Zehnder interferometer and analyzed using an equally unbalanced but
independently stabilized Mach–Zehnder interferometer. The nominal input state was prepared
as:
|𝜓in⟩= cos(53 ∘)|𝐸⟩+𝑒 𝑖15∘
sin(53∘)|𝐿⟩(S17)
The buffer output was reconstructed after different numbers of round trips and compared with
the reference input state measured by replacing the buffer with a short fiber bypass. The
corresponding data are shown in Figs. S6 and S7. The larger fluctuations observed in this
independent-interferometer configuration are attributed to residual relative phase noise between
the preparation and analysis interferometers, rather than to buffer-induced decoherence, as con-
firmed by the self-referenced measurement in S6.1.2.
28
Figure S6:Heralded time-bin single-qubit storage with independent state preparation
and analysis, nominally𝜃= 53 ∘ and𝜑= 15 ∘.The panels show the reconstructed values of
𝜃,𝜑, and𝐹with respect to the bypass reference state as a function of the buffer loop number.
The input time-bin qubit was prepared and analyzed using two independent unbalanced Mach–
Zehnder interferometers with 300 ps path imbalance each.
29
Figure S7:Density matrices for heralded time-bin single-qubit storage with inde-
pendent preparation and analysis, nominally𝜃= 53 ∘ and𝜑= 15 ∘.Density matrices
reconstructed from signal-idler coincidence measurements are shown for the bypass reference
state and for the states retrieved after different buffer loop numbers. The time-bin basis is de-
fined by the early and late temporal modes,|𝐸⟩and|𝐿⟩.
30
S6.1.2 Self-referenced state generation and projection
A second time-bin dataset was acquired in a self-referenced configuration, where the same un-
balanced Mach–Zehnder interferometer was used for both state preparation and projection. In
this configuration, the interferometric phase used to define the prepared state is the same as that
used for the analysis. This configuration prepares and analyzes the state:
|+⟩= 1√
2 (|𝐸⟩+|𝐿⟩)(S18)
which corresponds to𝜃= 45 ∘and𝜑= 0 ∘in the parametrization of Eq. S15. The retrieved state
was measured after different numbers of buffer round trips and compared with the corresponding
self-referenced input state. The dataset shown in Fig. S8 provides a direct test of the intrinsic
preservation of time-bin coherence by the buffer.
31
Figure S8:Heralded time-bin single-qubit storage in the self-referenced configuration.
The panels show the reconstructed values of𝜃,𝜑, and𝐹as a function of the buffer loop number.
In this measurement, the same unbalanced Mach–Zehnder interferometer was used for both
state preparation and projection, so that interferometric phase drifts are common-mode and the
intrinsic effect of the buffer on the time-bin coherence can be isolated.
32
S6.2 Polarization-bin states
Polarization-bin datasets were acquired using the polarization preparation and analysis configu-
ration described in Sec. 4 of the main text. The computational basis was defined by the horizontal
|𝐻⟩and vertical|𝑉⟩polarization states. The input states were prepared using free-space po-
larization optics and reconstructed after retrieval from the buffer by projecting the output field
onto different polarization bases. The fidelity was calculated with respect to the reference input
state measured by replacing the buffer with a short fiber bypass.
These measurements were performed with attenuated classical pulses rather than heralded
single photons. They therefore characterize the ability of the buffer to preserve the polarization
degree of freedom during propagation and switching, with the retrieved states compared directly
with the corresponding bypass reference states. This is nontrivial since the buffer is implemented
in optical fiber, where residual birefringence can accumulate polarization rotations over multiple
round trips.
S6.2.1 Polarization-bin input state with nominal𝜃= 70 ∘
Inthisdataset, theinputstatewaspreparedwithnominalamplitudeangle𝜃= 70 ∘andazimuthal
angle𝜑=−90 ∘. It therefore can be written as:
|𝜓in⟩= cos(70 ∘)|𝐻⟩+𝑒 −𝑖90∘
sin(70∘)|𝑉⟩(S19)
The retrieved state was reconstructed after different numbers of buffer round trips and compared
with the bypass reference state. This allowed the evolution of𝜃,𝜑, and𝐹to be tracked as a
function of storage time (Figs. S9 and S10).
S6.2.2 Polarization-bin input state with nominal𝜃= 60 ∘
A second polarization-bin dataset was acquired for a different input state to evaluate the robust-
ness of polarization preservation under a different preparation condition.
The state was prepared with a nominal amplitude angle𝜃= 60∘ and azimuthal angle𝜑=
−90∘. It therefore can be written as:
|𝜓in⟩= cos(60 ∘)|𝐻⟩+𝑒 −𝑖90∘
sin(60∘)|𝑉⟩(S20)
As for the𝜃= 70∘dataset, the retrieved state was reconstructed after different numbers of buffer
round trips and compared with the bypass reference state. This allowed the evolution of𝜃,𝜑,
and𝐹to be tracked as a function of storage time (Figs. S11 and S12).
The small systematic drift observed for this second input state is attributed to residual
deterministic polarization rotation accumulated over multiple round trips, rather than to depo-
larization, as the retrieved states remain well described by nearly pure polarization states.
33
Figure S9:Polarization-bin state with nominal𝜃= 70 ∘ and𝜑=−90 ∘.The panels show
the reconstructed values of𝜃,𝜑, and𝐹with respect to the bypass reference state as a function
of the buffer loop number.
34
Figure S10:Density matrices for the polarization-bin state with nominal𝜃= 70∘ and
𝜑=−90 ∘.Density matrices are shown for the bypass reference state and for the states retrieved
after different buffer loop numbers. The reconstruction is performed in the polarization basis
{|𝐻⟩,|𝑉⟩}.
35
Figure S11:Polarization-bin state with nominal𝜃= 60 ∘ and𝜑=−90 ∘.The panels show
the reconstructed values of𝜃,𝜑, and𝐹with respect to the bypass reference state as a function
of the buffer loop number.
36
Figure S12:Density matrices for the polarization-bin state with nominal𝜃= 60∘ and
𝜑=−90 ∘.Density matrices are shown for the bypass reference state and for the states retrieved
after different buffer loop numbers. The reconstruction is performed in the polarization basis
{|𝐻⟩,|𝑉⟩}.
37
S6.3 Frequency-bin states
The frequency-bin dataset was acquired using the electro-optic-modulation configuration de-
scribed in Sec. 4 of the main text. A continuous-wave laser tuned to ITU channel 21 was
modulated using an electro-optic amplitude modulator driven at𝑓RF = 1 GHz. The amplitude
modulation produces coherent frequency components separated by the modulation frequency.
The frequency-bin basis states|𝑅⟩and|𝐵⟩are therefore defined by two optical components
separated by𝑓RF, whose mutual coherence gives rise to a temporal beating at1 GHz.
The retrieved state was analyzed from this temporal beating, measured with an ultrafast
photodetector. The RF modulation signal was used as the phase reference for the reconstruction.
The amplitude angle𝜃was extracted from the modulation depth of the temporal beating, i.e.
from the amplitude of the oscillating component normalized to the average detected intensity.
The azimuthal angle𝜑was obtained from the phase of the beating with respect to the RF
reference.
The nominal input state was prepared with amplitude angle𝜃= 9 ∘ and azimuthal angle
𝜑=−15 ∘and can be written as:
|𝜓in⟩= cos(9 ∘)|𝑅⟩+𝑒 −𝑖15∘
sin(9∘)|𝐵⟩(S21)
The state retrieved from the buffer was reconstructed after different numbers of round trips and
compared with the bypass reference state. The extracted values of𝜃,𝜑, and𝐹are reported as
a function of the buffer loop number in Fig. S13, while the corresponding reconstructed density
matrices are shown in Fig. S14.
38
Figure S13:Frequency-bin state with nominal𝜃= 9 ∘ and𝜑=−15 ∘.The panels show the
reconstructed values of𝜃,𝜑, and𝐹with respect to the bypass reference state as a function of
the buffer loop number. The two frequency-bin basis states correspond to optical components
separated by1 GHz.
39
Figure S14:Density matrices for the frequency-bin state with nominal𝜃= 9 ∘ and
𝜑=−15 ∘.Density matrices are shown for the bypass reference state and for the states retrieved
afterdifferentbufferloopnumbers. Thefrequency-binbasisisdefinedbytwoopticalcomponents,
|𝑅⟩and|𝐵⟩, separated by1 GHz.
40
S6.4 Time-bin entangled photons
The time-bin entanglement dataset was acquired using the same photon-pair source and Mach–
Zehnder interferometers described in the main text. In this configuration, the first interferometer
defines the early and late time bins on the pump beam, while the second interferometer is
used for the joint analysis of signal and idler photons. For each selected buffer loop, signal–
idler coincidences were recorded as a function of the relative phase between the preparation
and analysis interferometers. The raw data associated with each phase setting consist of two-
dimensional coincidence histograms as a function of the signal𝑡𝑆 and idler𝑡𝐼 detection times.
Representative histograms are shown in Fig. S15 for photons retrieved after 1, 10, and 17
buffer loops. The central peak highlighted in the figures by the black circle corresponds to the
indistinguishable two-photon alternatives that give rise to Franson-type quantum interference.8
The other peaks arise from distinguishable combinations of early and late arrival times and
are not used to extract the two-photon interference fringe. The interference curves reported in
Fig. 4 of the main text were obtained by integrating the coincidence counts within the selected
region (red square) around the central peak for each value of the relative phase. To evaluate
the visibility𝑉for each buffer loop, the integrated central-peak coincidences were fitted as a
function of the analysis phase using a sinusoidal function. The two-photon interference visibility
was extracted as:
𝑉= 𝐶max −𝐶min
𝐶max +𝐶min
(S22)
where𝐶 max and𝐶 min are the maximum and minimum fitted coincidence rates, respectively.
Assuming the standard sinusoidal correlation expected for time-bin Franson interference, the
corresponding CHSH parameter was estimated from the measured visibility as9:
𝑆= 2
√
2𝑉(S23)
As reported in the main text, the raw data were analyzed without subtracting background or
accidental coincidences. Corrected visibilities were obtained only by accounting for the indepen-
dently measured visibility of the analyzing interferometer.
8M. Bacchiet al., arXiv:2505.04598 (2025)
9I. Marcikicet al., Phys. Rev. Lett.93, 180502 (2004)
41
(a) Loop 1, maximum
 (b) Loop 1, minimum
(c) Loop 10, maximum
 (d) Loop 10, minimum
(e) Loop 17, maximum
 (f) Loop 17, minimum
Figure S15:Representative two-dimensional signal–idler coincidence histograms for
time-bin entangled photons retrieved from the buffer.Panels (a,b), (c,d), and (e,f)
correspond to signal-idler coincidences for photons retrieved after 1, 10, and 17 buffer loops,
respectively. The left column shows interferometer phases close to maxima of the two-photon
interference fringe, while the right column shows phases close to minima. The horizontal and
vertical axes correspond to the signal and idler detection times,𝑡𝑆 and𝑡 𝐼, respectively. The
highlighted central peak, marked by a black circle, corresponds to the indistinguishable two-
photon quantum interference events, while the surrounding peaks originate from distinguishable
early/late arrival-time combinations. The two-photon interference curves were reconstructed by
integrating the coincidence counts within the selected central region marked by the red square
for each value of the analysis phase.
42
S7 Temporal multiplexing
The fiber-loop architecture naturally supports temporal multiplexing because several optical
pulses separated in time can be simultaneously stored in the buffer and retrieved after pro-
grammable numbers of round trips. In the main text, this capability was demonstrated by
injecting a train of 25 temporal modes, generated by a pulsed laser operating at a repetition rate
of 1 GHz, and selectively retrieving specific modes at different buffer loops, while the remaining
modes continued to circulate inside the buffer. Here, we report a complementary time-domain
measurement that directly visualizes selective input and delayed retrieval from the buffer. In
this measurement, attenuated laser pulses at ITU channel 21 were sent to the buffer input with
a 1 GHz repetition rate, while the input switching sequence was programmed to couple selected
pulses into the fiber loop at different round trips.
The reflected and transmitted signals are shown in Fig. S16. The pulses that were not coupled
into the buffer are shown in the reflection trace, whereas the selected pulses are missing because
theywereswitchedintothebuffer. Inparticular, pulse6 wasloadedatloop1, pulse18wasloaded
at loop 2, and pulse 11 was loaded at loop 4. Therefore, these missing pulses identify the temporal
modes selected by the input operation at different times. The corresponding transmission trace
shows the delayed retrieval of the same selected modes. Before the retrieval operation, no signal
is detected at the output port, confirming that the injected pulses remain stored inside the
buffer. When the output Sagnac interferometer S2 is opened at loop 11, the three previously
loaded pulses are retrieved and appear as distinct peaks in the output trace. Their different peak
amplitudes arise from the different storage times experienced inside the buffer. This confirms
that temporal modes loaded at different previous round trips can be stored simultaneously and
retrieved during the same programmed output sequence.
Figure S16:Selective input and delayed retrieval of temporal modes.Top: reflection
trace measured at the input port of the buffer during the selective loading sequence. Pulses that
remain visible in reflection are not coupled into the buffer, whereas missing pulses correspond
to modes switched into the fiber loop. In this measurement, pulse 6 is loaded at loop 1, pulse
18 at loop 2, and pulse 11 at loop 4. Bottom: transmission trace measured at the output port.
No signal is detected before the retrieval operation, while the three selected pulses are retrieved
together at loop 11.
This measurement complements the temporal multiplexing experiment reported in the main
text, where selected modes were individually retrieved at different buffer loops while the remain-
ing modes continued to circulate in the buffer. Here, instead, the reflection trace directly shows
the selective loading of individual temporal modes, while the transmission trace confirms their
delayed retrieval after storage.
43